Notes/MIDI.md, before:

# MIDI Messages

## Channels

The MIDI standard has 16 channels, theoretically for up to 16 different devices.
However, multiple devices can share a channel, so... ??

## Programs

MIDI programs are basically instruments. A Program Change message is sent to a
channel, and that channel is now supposed to be that instrument. Or that is what
seems expected in the real world.

## MIDI Keyboard Specific

I bought a Monoprice [606607][] 49-Key MIDI keyboard to use with the chimes.
I plan to take advantage of some of its features.

The keyboard uses rotary encoder A1 to set the program (instrument) and encoder
B2 to set the channel volume (Control Change for controler 0x07), 0-127.

### Analog Slider

There is an analog slider that I could use as an easier/quicker way to set the
volume on the chimes. I should make this an option in the GUI.

In the default config, it sends CC 147 (Master Volume), 0-127.

| Position | Raw Value  |          Message          |
| -------: | ---------: | ------------------------- |
|       0% |   0 (0x00) | `F0 7F 7F 04 01 00 00 F7` |
|      25% |  32 (0x20) | `F0 7F 7F 04 01 00 20 F7` |
|      50% |  64 (0x40) | `F0 7F 7F 04 01 00 40 F7` |
|      75% |  96 (0x60) | `F0 7F 7F 04 01 00 60 F7` |
|     100% | 127 (0x7F) | `F0 7F 7F 04 01 00 7F F7` |

I think it might be good to honor this as well as the channel volume.

### Modulation Wheel

This is probably present on more keyboards than an analog slider, so I might
consider allowing this to control volume as well (as an option in the GUI).

The message is the standard modulation wheel (Control Change for controller
0x01), 0-127.

This should probably be off by default, because this would not be any kind of
expected behavior, and certainly wouldn't be intuitive.

# Our Behavior

Officially, we should make the user select a channel (1-16), and only listen to
that channel. Additionally, we would only play notes on that channel if a
program of 14 (0x0E, tubular bells) was selected.

However, we can't control/predict how MIDI files will be written. So the
official behavior might end up not playing certain songs at all, or requiring
the user to select the right channel.

So, we can do a couple things:

* Follow the spec
* Listen on all channels for just Tubular Bells
* Listen on one channel for all programs

The options above could be selected as a mode by the user.

## Follow the spec

This would behave as expected in a production / commercial environment. But I
really think this would cause a lot of MIDI files not to play back.

## Listen on all channels for just Tubular Bells

If we add an "All" to the channel selection, this could be a good option. It
follows the spec, unless the user says "ALL". And in that case, it is pretty
clear what will happen, IMO.

I would lean toward this option.

### Tech Details

I would probably need an array of bools for all 16 channels to track if they are
currently configured for Tubular Bells. Because some wanker might use multiple
channels of bells for some reason.

## Listen on one channel for all programs

Upside: This would cause MIDI files not designed for chimes to play.

Downside: This would cause MIDI files not designed for chimes to play.

This is probably a bad enough option it isn't worth implementing.

## Decision

I will follow the spec, but implement an "ALL" channel that listens for tubular
bells on all channels. This will not be the default.

# MIDI OUT / THRU

I will be using a single combined OUT/THRU port, with behavior selected in
software.

Officially, the MIDI OUT port is for data generated by the chimes. But chimes
don't really generate data.

I am thinking there should be a setting to control if MIDI files played by the
chimes send data to the MIDI OUT port or not.

I guess, fundamentally, I don't know what I want to do with this port yet.

[606607]:http://www.monoprice.com/product?p_id=606607

Commit message:

Listen for tubular bells on all channels.
This makes a whole lot more MIDI files work, and honestly just makes
more sense. I can/should still add a GUI option to select just one
channel if the use case calls for it.

Notes/MIDI.md, after:

# MIDI Messages

## Channels

The MIDI standard has 16 channels, theoretically for up to 16 different devices.
However, multiple devices can share a channel, so... ??

## Programs

MIDI programs are basically instruments. A Program Change message is sent to a
channel, and that channel is now supposed to be that instrument. Or that is what
seems expected in the real world.

## MIDI Keyboard Specific

I bought a Monoprice [606607][] 49-Key MIDI keyboard to use with the chimes.
I plan to take advantage of some of its features.

The keyboard uses rotary encoder A1 to set the program (instrument) and encoder
B2 to set the channel volume (Control Change for controler 0x07), 0-127.

### Analog Slider

There is an analog slider that I could use as an easier/quicker way to set the
volume on the chimes. I should make this an option in the GUI.

In the default config, it sends CC 147 (Master Volume), 0-127.

| Position | Raw Value  |          Message          |
| -------: | ---------: | ------------------------- |
|       0% |   0 (0x00) | `F0 7F 7F 04 01 00 00 F7` |
|      25% |  32 (0x20) | `F0 7F 7F 04 01 00 20 F7` |
|      50% |  64 (0x40) | `F0 7F 7F 04 01 00 40 F7` |
|      75% |  96 (0x60) | `F0 7F 7F 04 01 00 60 F7` |
|     100% | 127 (0x7F) | `F0 7F 7F 04 01 00 7F F7` |

I think it might be good to honor this as well as the channel volume.

### Modulation Wheel

This is probably present on more keyboards than an analog slider, so I might
consider allowing this to control volume as well (as an option in the GUI).

The message is the standard modulation wheel (Control Change for controller
0x01), 0-127.

This should probably be off by default, because this would not be any kind of
expected behavior, and certainly wouldn't be intuitive.

# Our Behavior

Officially, we should make the user select a channel (1-16), and only listen to
that channel. Additionally, we would only play notes on that channel if a
program of 14 (0x0E, tubular bells) was selected.

However, we can't control/predict how MIDI files will be written. So the
official behavior might end up not playing certain songs at all, or requiring
the user to select the right channel.

So, we can do a couple things:

* Follow the spec
* Listen on all channels for just Tubular Bells
* Listen on one channel for all programs

The options above could be selected as a mode by the user.

## Follow the spec

This would behave as expected in a production / commercial environment. But I
really think this would cause a lot of MIDI files not to play back.

## Listen on all channels for just Tubular Bells

If we add an "All" to the channel selection, this could be a good option. It
follows the spec, unless the user says "ALL". And in that case, it is pretty
clear what will happen, IMO.

I would lean toward this option.

### Tech Details

I would probably need an array of bools for all 16 channels to track if they are
currently configured for Tubular Bells. Because some wanker might use multiple
channels of bells for some reason.

## Listen on one channel for all programs

Upside: This would cause MIDI files not designed for chimes to play.

Downside: This would cause MIDI files not designed for chimes to play.

This is probably a bad enough option it isn't worth implementing.

## Decision

I will follow the spec, but implement an "ALL" channel that listens for tubular
bells on all channels.

Internally, both the Teensy USB MIDI library and my library use channel 0 to
indicate ALL/ANY. So I have to add 1 to the channel as it comes in over the MIDI
port to match USB MIDI behavior.

# MIDI OUT / THRU

I will be using a single combined OUT/THRU port, with behavior selected in
software.

Officially, the MIDI OUT port is for data generated by the chimes. But chimes
don't really generate data.

I am thinking there should be a setting to control if MIDI files played by the
chimes send data to the MIDI OUT port or not.

I guess, fundamentally, I don't know what I want to do with this port yet.

[606607]:http://www.monoprice.com/product?p_id=606607
